---
layout: post
title: Going Analog
---

I've recently been using more analog stuff. After one too many Youtube binges it's long overdue for me to take phone addiction seriously; I wanna avoid instinctively reaching for a phone and infintely scrolling during downtimes. So, this last month I started using a physical journal, an analog wrist watch, an analog wall clock, and a paper fridge calendar. Grandpa mode on.

I was pretty hesitant to do this. I'm a big digital journaler and really value the idea synthesisizing and sense of organization you get from linking text files together. A long time ago I did journal physically, but I never went back to see what I wrote, whereas for digital notes I'm often able to compound thoughts over time pretty effectively. I already have a Garmin watch that I use for running. And at times I've been pretty draconian about owning less physical things - why own clocks when your phone tells the time, and why continuously waste money unecessarily on physical notebooks? 

I got 3.5x5.5" spiral notebooks and a moleskine of the same size. I prefer the spiral notebook more because it lays flat when you open it to a page. Compared to my previous system of Obsidian and Things 3, I really like not being bound to a screen to jot things down. There's no risk of getting sidetracked by picking up my phone.
And because this can't be infinitely catalogued and will probably be thrown away, I'm less precious with it and write more down without thinking about how it relates to other existing notes. The pace of writing is slower than typing and rewriting is harder to do, which makes writing a better design than typing to get in the flow for capturing unstructured thoughts without consistently self-editing. This won't replace my digital system though, I see it as a dedicated modality for the mass creation of thought-to-text, which I'll then selectively re-type digitally for synthesis. Retyping notes might be a pain, but for now I see it as a good opportunity to revisit and clarify the thought. Also while on a bus I still preferred to reach for my phone to jot down notes, just cause it's easier to take it out, so even for the thought-to-text modality it's non-exhaustive. But I'm pretty happy with dropping my digital-only journalling elitism.

Getting an analog watch on the other hand was initially more about vanity; I just liked the look of it. I realized I was out of practice with telling time on an analog clock, but I now really quite appreciate it. At a quick glance you can visualize not only where you are are in the hour but how much time is remaining until the next hour/quarter hour/5 minute interval without mental math. My watch is a dive watch which lets you rotate the bezel, which makes it super easy to visualize elapsed time at a glance as well. I started timing everything from commute times to break times and my intuition of how long things take has improved quite a bit. Telling the time is also nicer than smartwatches. It's more legible because of the high contrast, there's a no slight flow-interrupting delay like there is from the backlight of my Garmin, and there's a dependable zero risk (software updates may always one day change a setting) of notifications. It does complicate my life a bit: I now have to swap to my Garmin for running, and if I don't wear it for a couple days I have to wind it and reset the time. It's also such a stylistic statement; I spent way too long trying to find one that I liked and wasn't too pretentious. I still look at my phone sometimes to check the time instead of my watch out of habit, but it's so apparent now that doing so introduces the risk of seeing a notification and falling into a spiral of scrolling. Decoupling time telling from this risk, and rediscovering the ability to intuit around time in a very pleasant manner, actually does makes a watch feel like it's not just an anachronism for fashion. Kinda still mainly fashion for me though.

Because the watch turned out pretty cool, I got an analog wall clock. It syncs to atomic time via radio and is on the wall in the kitchen at eye level. Honestly it looks very grandma. It gives the same inution of time as the wrist watch and it most importantly it gives my eyes something to look at in in-between moments; it's a nicotine patch to stop reaching for my phone. Behaviorally, there's something about standing in the kitchen mindlessly staring at the moving second hand of an analog clock that really encourages you to plan your next hour out.

Lastly, I got a month-to-month paper calendar that sticks magnetically on my fridge. Right now I just use it to check the date for analog journal entries. Google calendar is too integrated with everything, so this will mostly be to rebuild intuition for mapping what days of the month lie on what weekday, and remove the reliance of needing my phone to know the date.

This was a pretty refreshing experiment in taking back control. I've started taking breaks and doing quick chores taking a notebook and wearing a watch while leaving the phone. Phone apps aren't designed for our best interest anymore. Even if they start off being so, enshittification from misaligned incentives won't guarantee it. And even ones like Obsidian which try hard to be aligned (no VC money, text-based offline data storage to jump ship easily) still exist on an OS next to Youtube or Instagram that bargain for attention so it still consumes willpower.

I wonder what else I can decouple from my phone. Maybe I'll buy an abacus next or something.
